If you're like a retail investor, you're
like, "Okay, I've heard stable coins are
great. This is the way to play stable
coin." So, there's there's definitely a
lot of FOMO here. As you know, on our
team, we're betting against it. So,
we're bearish on circle specifically,
not bearish on stable coins, but bearish
on circle at this price level.
[Music]
>> Hey everyone, welcome back to another
episode of WSJ's Take on the Week. I'm
Telis Deemos.
>> And I'm Miriam Gotfrieded. Today's show,
a big conversation about stable coins.
>> That's right. Stable coins, the boring
part of crypto, right? Though not so
boring uh lately if you look at the
stock market. Before we get to that
though, I think we need to have a very
serious conversation about the labor
market. So, there was a recent
government jobs report that showed that
in July the US economy only created
73,000 jobs, which was running below
where it had been in prior months.
people had been expecting or wondering
if there was going to be some sort of
after effect of tariffs and other just
kind of big economic changes that have
been happening. They started to see it
there. And probably even more
significantly, there was a revision to
the prior couple of reports showing that
the economy had created 258,000
fewer jobs than had previously been
estimated. And that has really changed
the conversation about what the impact
of tariffs might be on the economy, how
the US economy is doing. It's changed
the way we talk about the Federal
Reserve's next move. Miriam, how has it
changed conversations you've been having
uh in recent days?
>> Well, I think a lot of people were
looking at the jobs market as, you know,
a sign of health for the overall
economy. And now that it's a little bit
less healthy than we thought, I think
expectations for a rate cut have
changed. More people are expecting the
Fed to act at its next meeting. I think
a lot of people are re-examining
the process by which we collect these
estimates. There's a whole series of
surveys that go out to businesses that
they must respond to in order for the
government to tabulate payrolls. And you
know, if businesses don't respond, they
don't get the data. And if the survey
trickles in late, then the data comes in
late and the revisions happen. And
that's sort of the explanation for the
degree of this revision. Yeah. But
President Trump thought there was
another explanation. he believes that,
you know, the head of the BLS somehow
politicized the report um by to in order
to make him look bad and, you know, that
that's the real reason behind the
revision. You know, of course, he
offered no evidence of that, but you
know, this has created detention and it
led to the firing of the head of the
BLS.
>> Yeah. And and economic data is something
that Wall Street really relies on. Um
big institutional traders as well as,
you know, individual traders, you know,
look at those reports. The journal had a
big story talking about how you know
Wall Street economists um really are
thinking hard about about what this
means and you know whether they can sort
of look at economic data the same way
that they had in the past you know if
there is wholesale changes to how the
data is collected now obviously you know
we'll we'll see what changes are made
>> and I think there's a fear among
investors going forward that the data
will actually become less reliable
because you know the new person who will
be put in charge of the BLS will be
someone who will be expected to not
quote unquote politicize the data and
you know that person will have a
spotlight shown on them and what will
that mean in terms of you know reporting
accurate and reliable data.
>> It is a reminder too that that coming up
with opinions about what's going on in
the economy whether you have government
data that everybody agrees is the gold
standard or or isn't is a very tricky
and difficult thing. investors struggle
to to come up with narratives to lay on
what's happening um in the economy. You
know, you look at earnings reports,
right? You get very different
perspectives. You know, we had a recent
earnings report um from uh McDonald's,
right? And and that report was talking
about how yeah, they they were selling
more food, but they were also doing a
lot of discounting, right? And and from
that people took away, well, the
consumer is doing okay. Then we had
another report recently from Shopify,
the big e-commerce company. It was a
blowout report and they said that like
people are spending and doing great.
That stock surged. So, you know, which
which of them is telling the real story
about the economy? We don't want to take
away from this that like government data
tells us exactly what we need to know
about the economy each week because a
lot of it too depends on what happens.
>> But that being said, you know, despite
all this controversy around this one set
of data, you know, we do have more
government data coming out in this
coming week that people are going to be
looking closely at, right? We have CPI.
Yeah, the consumer price index, the last
reading was a little hot. It was 2.7%
kind of inching toward 3% that I think
starts to spook everyone. Uh we'll see
what the next report says. Also, the
producer price index which kind of is a
measure of wholesale prices.
>> It looks like sort of the components of
the prices that we ultimately pay as
consumers.
>> Yes. Similarly, that has not been too
hot. It's been running in the sort of
2%. So, um again, not seeing necessarily
the the inflation uh there. Um, and then
we have business inventories, which I
think that's that's one I think people
will be interested in because the
narrative about what's happened with
tariffs is that everybody bought up
stuff earlier in the year, worrying that
the price of it might go up later and so
now everyone's sitting on on kind of big
inventory piles,
>> but they may be working it down and we
may start to see prices increase by the
end of the year.
>> Yeah. What whether or not that that's
going to play out in this next report,
um, we we will see. Um but what's
interesting from a market point of view
though is despite the I I would say you
know very dramatic kind of discussions
we're having about the economy and data
the market has been you know it went
down a little bit after the jobs report.
Um it went kind of back up. I think
we're sort of still in the neighborhood
of all-time highs for the S&P and there
are certainly some stocks that that the
market still seems to love. you know,
>> it's been really surprisingly resilient.
>> Yeah. The animal spirits have not been
have not been calmed, have not been
soothed uh by what's going on with the
economy conversation and maybe even a
Fed cut has has reawakened something.
>> And one particular company that people
have gotten really excited about is
Circle.
>> Yes. Uh getting now to the main to the
meat of our episode here. Circle is a
stable coin company. They went public
earlier this year. The IPO market is
hot. People are ready to buy companies
they think are hot growth companies.
There was an IPO recently of Figma, uh,
a software company that that that did
gang busters. The the stock went up so
much we wrote, uh, the journal wrote an
article about did it go too up too much,
did they do a big job pricing it, right?
That's that's the kind of market we're
in in in the IPO market. So, Circle
debuted in early June. They're a 36
billion company that that didn't wasn't
in the public markets a couple of months
ago. Okay, tell us before we go on, I
have an embarrassing admission, which is
that my eyes kind of glaze over when I
read about stable coins and I don't
really know what they are. Can you
explain it to me again?
>> Sure, Miriam, that is not a dumb
question. There are no there are no dumb
questions. Um, stable coins are meant to
be kind of the the the glue of the
crypto ecosystem. what they are is a
token or coin uh that represents a fixed
amount of a traditional fiat currency,
right? So, so obviously the US dollar is
the major one and there are are
companies that issue stable coins in
exchange for it. You give them a dollar,
they give you back essentially a stable
coin that is worth $1 and always meant
to be $1. Stable coins kind of the pick
and shovel of the cryptoverse, right?
people move around between currencies
and countries. Are stable coins in the
middle of that? And more importantly,
are stable coins something that we could
all be using in the near future? So, to
dive deeper into all of this, I had a
conversation with Dan Dolev. He's a
stock analyst. He's a senior analyst at
Mazuo Americas. Uh, and he covers the
crypto, fintech, payments realm across
all those companies. Uh, we talked about
Circle, uh, a company that he actually
has an underperform rating on as well as
other businesses related to that. and
just kind of what the prospects are and
how investors should think about this
stuff and we're going to have that
conversation when we come back after the
break.
So, there's a topic on my mind uh it's
both something that's about the big
picture future, digital banking, the
future of payments and commerce, and
it's also about some things in the here
and now like what's the Fed's next move?
And that's the business of stable coins.
Obviously, it's been a hot topic during
the Trump administration and there's a
lot going on in Washington and now in
corporate earnings and so we've got uh
an analyst who covers well Dan you cover
a wide world. You've got payments,
fintech, crypto. So, you're right in the
middle of lots of things. Uh Dan Dolv
from Mizuo Americas. He's a senior
analyst there. Thanks for joining us.
>> Thanks Tis. always great to uh be with
you and you know looking forward to uh
collaborating on this.
>> So stable coins are created by private
companies right there's there's a
handful of them. Tether is the largest
and one of the largest circle uh circle
internet group recently went public and
they are an issuer of USDC and when they
went public they had a hugely successful
IPO. They went out at $31. They closed
on the first day over $80 and now
they're trading somewhere in the
neighborhood of, you know, at least at
this recording, you know, in the 160s.
So, we're talking about a 5x since their
IPO in um in early June. What is their
business? What exactly is does Circle do
to make money? So the way circle makes
money is that they take your dollar and
they put it on the blockchain and then
they mint a dollar for you taking uh
investing your dollar in US treasuries
which are again which are making about
four and change percent right now I
think to be accurate in the second
quarter it's around 4.2%. What they do
is they have distribution partners.
Their largest distribution partner by
far is Coinbase. They have millions of
users and those users are buying the
stable coin. They're buying USDC
and Coinbase is offering rewards in the
form of percentage, say 4% on some of
that, but they're not offering it on all
of them. Circle doesn't offer it on all
of them. And that's how you're basically
getting some sort of a revenue but also
for the users there is yield. So it's
kind of a game between how much are you
giving back to the users versus how much
are you keeping for yourself in terms of
the treasury yield at any point in time.
>> So circle takes in your dollar they give
you back a USDC. So then then your
dollar then sits on on in a reserve fund
that Circle controls and that earns
interest because they buy treasury bills
and other sort of low yielding sort of
safe things. But to your point, they
don't just then keep all of that money,
right? You're saying some of that they
share with partners like Coinbase. And
the point of that is what? It's it's to
essentially incentivize Coinbase to to
to to use USDC versus a different stable
coin.
Correct. And and and not only that,
there is also a regulatory thing here
because under the Genius Act, which we
probably going to get into in a second,
>> that's the recently passed legislation
that's meant to sort of lay down the
rules of the road for for stable coins
and it's part of the reason that
everybody's so excited now. There's
this, you know, kind of framework for
stable coins.
>> Correct. So, you need basically under
the Genius Act, the the mentor of the
coin cannot offer rewards. They cannot
offer yield. So, they need a from a
money market fund, right, which pays you
a yield. Circle can't pay you directly a
yield for holding a coin with them.
>> So, they need like a partner, right,
that basically lets you distribute the
the coin. So, they're using Coinbase,
but recently they've also started using
Binance
and there's going to be a lot more
partners.
>> So, then what has the market gotten so
excited about when it comes to Circle?
What do you think is kind of driving the
market enthusiasm here?
>> So,
we're not part of that. Um, we haven't
underperformed and I think our price
target is is more than half less of
where it's trading right now.
>> As an analyst, do you think that their
stock has gotten a little over its skis?
>> 100%. So, stable coins are hot. This is
the only way to place stable coins in a
US public market sense. There's no other
pure play stable coin. The float is very
small. So just to explain to to your uh
viewers the float is basically the
percent of shares that is actually
trading. So they went out with a very
small float low double digit float as a
percent of the total market cap. So it's
very hard to buy in and buy out. So
every dollar that you're buying into the
stock makes you know drives drives it
up. So what we think is there's a lot of
retail excitement that drove up the
stock to more than 200 initially.
>> Is it a meme stock? Would you call it a
meme stock?
>> I would put it in that category. It's it
definitely fits very well within that
category. You know, if you're like a
retail investor, you're like, "Okay,
I've heard stable coins are great. This
is the way to play stable coin."
>> So, there's there's definitely a lot of
FOMO here. As you know, on our team,
we're betting against it. So, we're
bearish on Circle specifically, not
bearish on stable coins, but bearish on
Circle at this price level.
>> What's the concern for the the business
of stable coins versus the use of stable
coins? Where do those two things
diverge? Why why don't they just both
kind of go up together?
>> They diverge because the business of
stable coin is pretty much a creature of
high interest rates.
So the way to get you to buy the stable
coin on Coinbase is to incentivize you
as a retail, you know, customer to give
you the so-called reward, which is
basically yield. But the interesting
thing there is once the rates start
getting cut and this is not getting
priced into the stock. Once the rates
are getting cut, the business model is
going to be challenged because it's
harder to incentivize someone to mint a
coin when there's no adequate reward on
the other side. So in other words, if
people aren't going to be earning the
high yield, you think there's not necess
as much of an incentive for them to own
stable coins and that's and that's bad
for the issuers business. Interesting.
>> That's going to be it's going to be a
bigger hurdle to get you to buy because
at the end of the day, the consumer
needs an incentive. Like you're going to
you're not going to wake up one morning
and say, "I've got to mint a stable
coin." Unless there's a real good offer
on Coinbase or Binance saying, "Hey,
here's an opportunity to make 4%, you
know, risk-free. Let's talk about other
use cases for stable coins because it
seems to me that it's it's a um it's a
it can be a volume business too, right?
Maybe they're earning a little less you
know in yield on coins or paying it out
to partners or whatever might be the
case for you know circle or other stable
coin issuers. But if you know the number
of stable coins in circulation grows,
right, that's just you know you're
adding additional dollars and maybe that
same maybe that next dollar doesn't earn
as much but you're still getting more
dollars. So, what what are things that
that you think or or or or what are you
hearing about or what are people talking
about as ways that we will all be using
stable coins not just as a way to earn
yield in an account, but like are we
going to be using them to pay for
things?
>> Yeah, let's let's let's go back to like
baseball analogies because those are
probably the easiest.
>> I like that you're talking my language.
Okay, great.
>> The triple play is disrupting consumer
payments. So basically if you're able to
disrupt Visa and Mastercard and able to
disrupt like the merchant acquires and
the whole ecosystem we're talking about
tens of trillions of dollars that you're
disrupting. So the argument to be made
pro that is that payments is expensive
and clunky, right? So every time you go
to the store, right, you're buying a
Coke, the merchant has to pay what's
called a merchant discount rate, right?
They're paying it to the merchant
acquirer.
>> And they they're not fans of doing this.
>> They don't like that. So if you can sort
of crack this sort of machine, this
ecosystem somehow with stablecoin,
that's your triple play. But that's very
unlikely, just as it's just as unlikely
as a triple play because at the end of
the day, the consumer has to show up
with some sort of a stable coin, right?
And honestly, because the consumer, just
think about your day-to-day, you you
still have your miles with with, you
know, BFA or or or JP Morgan Chase or or
MX and you have your points.
>> Consumers get something out of their
credit card or their debit card. Even if
the merchant doesn't like paying,
>> the merchant doesn't like that. But the
merchant has one other job, which is to
convert. The merchant wants to sell.
Customer is king. If you show up,
whatever card you show up with,
typically the merchant would accept the
terms.
>> Dan, you and I have been talking about
payments businesses for years now. We've
seen a lot of people come along with
various schemes for getting you to ditch
the card and pay with a digital wallet
that like draws directly from your bank
account. None of those things have
really had traction. And I know Visa and
Mastercard shares were down a little
bit, you know, when Circle was was going
public, but Visa and Mastercard are
themselves in the business of stable
coins, right? I know you follow those
companies, too. Like, they've they've
got some irons in that fire
>> 100%. And and I've I've asked the CEO on
on a public conference call, the the
Visa CEO, and and part of their value
added services is going to be revenues
that they're making from the stable coin
ecosystem. So actually stable coins are
good. They're driving more business to
the to the networks because at the end
of the day you have a consumer on the
one hand, you have merchants on the
other hand, and you need somehow to help
you connect the consumer and the
merchant. And that's where Visa and
Mastercard come into play. They already
have a very efficient global network.
It's kind of like reinventing the wheel
or or searching for a solution for a
problem that does not exist. We know
that people all over the world
especially in countries where you know
they don't really trust their currency
for one reason or another like to hold
dollars and traditionally that's
difficult right like you need to
literally physically you know have have
a you know jar of dollars in your house
sometimes right stable coins however
that's a very simple way for you to hold
US dollars so it seems like maybe on
that front and maybe there's a role for
stable coins to play in kind of global
payments I mean I think that's one of
the most probably talked about
opportunities. I mean, is is is that
something that that that you think could
really drive wider stable coin adoption
is sort of the the global and kind of
crossborder use.
>> There's there's two things I want to
distinct make a distinction here.
There's use cases and there is the
monetization of it, right? So if you
live in Argentina, if you live in, you
know, places in Africa, if you live in,
you know, kind of countries where
they're restricting access to the
dollar, stable coin is your friend,
right? If you want to send money abroad,
and I've tried it, you want to send
bigger chunks of money, right? Like you
want to send from one bank in in the US
to a bank in Germany, they will charge
you big fees. They will charge you big
conversion fees. That's where stable
coin could be your friend. Even though
at the end nodes of each transaction
there could be someone charging you
fees. So the the fee might actually just
shift from one fee to another right but
there's definitely an opportunity there.
And last there's a big opportunity for
like migrant workers right so a lot of
people are working in different
countries sending money back home and
those corridors are already seeing some
disruption and and price pressure from
stable coins. But remember none of this
is touching consumer payments. It's
disrupting the the western unions of the
world. It's disrupting the banks of the
world but not the networks, not the
payment ecosystem.
>> So, we have Circle will have its um
first kind of quarterly earnings report
and call as a as a public company um
this upcoming week. What will you be
looking for? Because on the one hand,
obviously, you know, we know what
interest rates are, so there's no
surprise there. So, what are other
things you'll be looking at? One thing
must be just sort of the the the amount
of coins in circulation and and use
cases they're seeing for it. What what
kinds of things will you be looking for?
>> It's even more nichy than that. And the
reason for that is because
everything you just mentioned is very
public. What we're looking for is
basically
how much more um say expensive are the
cost of distribution. So the cost of
distribution for Circle has that's the
only unknown. They have been moving up.
I.e. Circle always keeps a smaller part
of the cake that they're baking and they
have to give more slices of the cake to
partners like Binance and Coinbase. Our
prediction is that that trend is going
to continue which means business is not
as good or business is getting tougher.
That's what we're looking for. And I
think when Coinbase reported, they gave
you enough information to to basically
make a reasonable conclusion that
actually in the second quarter for
Circle, which hasn't reported yet,
things have gotten slightly worse. This
is based on the dollars that Coinbase
reported that they're making from
Circle. So, you have to make a few
assumptions, but it doesn't look good
for Circle, and we don't think it's
priced in yet.
>> Do you think investors might look past
that, though? because they're thinking
about this more as a Okay, so so maybe
they're paying more to to incentivize
and get stable coins out into the world
and circulating, but that in the long
run that will ultimately be good for
them. Do you think that's how some
people will be thinking about this
business?
>> I mean, potentially that's what the
stock is pricing in right now, but for
what you said to happen, you have to
really start seeing use cases
materialize. We're going to take a quick
pause on that for a short break and when
we come back, uh, we've got one last
question for Dan Dolev of Missouo
Americas.
[Music]
All right, so we're back. We're talking
with Dan Dolev. He is the payments
fintech uh, crypto analyst at Mizuo
Americas. And Dan, on the subject of the
Genius Act, the banking industry didn't
love the bill. I think there's some
concern that stable coins could
essentially disrupt or replace banking
that there was too much of a sort of too
much of the banking business was being
given to stable coins. Do you think that
stable coins could really disrupt
banking? I know we've talked about so
many things that could disrupt banking.
Could it be stable coins?
>> It's it's a big disruption to the money
they make off of these crossborder
transactions,
but remember most of the money that the
banks make is like personal loans. it's
uh mortgages those are kind of
unaffected by stable coins. I mean maybe
on the margin you can do some smart
contracts etc but at the end of the day
you think about it the bank is there to
take risk and to assess risk and and
stable coin is not really taking risks.
>> All right Dan uh thanks for joining us
and thanks for the interesting
conversation.
>> My pleasure.
[Music]
When we were talking about this episode,
um, you know, you you you mentioned, you
know, you you'd like to get schwarma for
lunch sometimes. Do you think you will
ever be paying for that schwarma with
stable coins or will you still be paying
for it the way you do today?
>> I mean, schwarma, no, but falafel for
sure. I'm just kidding. Um,
[Music]